---
title: "My Way to the Pro Tour"
date: "May 8, 2026"
id: 3
display: true
---

I played my first Pro Tour this past weekend in Las Vegas, and the experience was beyond all expectation. I finished 19th with an 11-5 record on the weekend (4-2 draft, 7-3 constructed) and lost my win-and-in to Worlds along the way; though it's hard to complain about ending up here, I'd be lying if I said I wasn't just a little disappointed not to get there in that last match. I played against some of the best competition I've ever faced: a couple of RC/Spotlight winners, a couple of PT winners, and the reigning World Champion. But in this reflection, I want to go from the very beginning of this run, where the dream honestly started with...something of a meme.

## A Hope and A Dreamdew Entrancer

Right before my fiancée (Michelle) and I embarked on a two-month trip to Asia, we registered for the NRG Series Team Trios event in the beginning of November with a friend of ours; since the event was in a suburb of Chicago, it was fairly easy to get to and would probably be a good time anyway. Michelle piloted Mono-Red in Standard (pre-Screaming Nemesis ban), I was on UB Frog in Modern after being inspired by a friend to pick up the deck, and our friend David was in the mines playing Spiderman sealed. Unfortunately, I punted my face off the entire Saturday morning on Frog and we quickly went 1-3, which put us out of contention for prizing. David had brought a Modern deck, I had brought a Standard brew, and Michelle still had her Mono-Red deck she was playing in the morning, so we stuck around to play some ReCQs in the afternoon.

I think the first thing that you should know about me as a Magic player is that I'm not afraid to register cards/decks that others would find "suboptimal". Some of my earliest competitive experiences, when WotC was taking baby steps towards the Magic: Spotlight Series post-COVID, were with a Grixis Midrange midrange-combo homebrew with [[Hidestugu and Kairi]] and [[Push // Pull]] in Standard around *March of the Machine* (proudly featured in [this Frank Karsten article|https://magic.gg/news/metagame-mentor-murders-at-karlov-manor-standard-at-magiccon-chicago]). During the ensuing Pioneer RCQ season, I spent an endless amount of time daydreaming/testing of an Azorius build of [[Nine Lives]] donation in a meta dominated by Amalia Combo, Izzet Phoenix, and Rakdos Vampires; I could fill another entire essay with the amount of stuff I have to say about this deck, and still regret to this day not being able to bring this creation to an RC. That day, the deck I brought was certainly my own creation. In a Standard format where you were allowed to play cards like [[Vivi Ornitier]], [[Proft's Eidetic Memory]], and [[Ouroboroid]], I decided to register this pile of cards:

https://moxfield.com/decks/7EJTECgDk0mitOhjQ8c5Aw

The deck heavily supports a blink theme by playing 4 [[Splash Portal]] and 4 [[Hide on the Ceiling]]. Both are hits off of [[Thundertrap Trainer]] and generate even more value when blinking [[Thundertrap Trainer]] and/or [[Dreamdew Entrancer]] (build-your-own Ancestral Recall), and can also give you some explosive starts scamming [[Quantum Riddler]]: with a dual land T1 into [[Llanowar Elves]], you can have a [[Quantum Riddler]] in play T2 with a blue land and [[Splash Portal]]. The scam also works with [[Spider-Sense]], though you don't get your second draw and have to bounce your [[Llanowar Elves]] if you decide to go for that line. [[Spider-Sense]] works in the deck not only as solid interaction, but also a synergy piece: bouncing a [[Thundertrap Trainer]] or [[Dreamdew Entrancer]] for another ETB trigger later feels amazing.

The coolest part of the deck to me lies in the power and flexibility between the synergy pieces. [[Hide on the Ceiling]] and [[Spider-Sense]] are both blink/self-bounce enablers, but together they're actually a one-sided wrath: target all of the things you want to exile with [[Hide on the Ceiling]], then [[Spider-Sense]] the delayed trigger for them to come back. [[Tishana's Tidebinder]] also does the trick when you don't have [[Spider-Sense]] for countering the return trigger; I've played games where I have two [[Hide on the Ceiling]]s in hand and a [[Tishana's Tidebinder]] on board, so I play one targeting my Tidebinder and the other targeting everything I want to exile, then order my Tidebinder to come back first, countering the second return trigger. [[Dreamdew Entrancer]] is also an important piece of the deck: if you aren't under pressure, it can lock one of your creatures down that you might want to bounce with [[Spider-Sense]] to draw 2. But if you're dying and there's a big threat hitting you hard, you can just stun it for three turns, buying you a ton of time.

In terms of finishers, I ended up running 2 [[Doppelgang]] because the deck draws so many cards and ends up with a lot of mana when you want to close out the game. There were certainly a lot of options and I could have optimized much more here, but it also did help that you could find [[Doppelgang]] off of [[Thundertrap Trainer]]. Finally, the sideboard was a bit of everything, but mostly geared towards hating on decks with [[Vivi Ornitier]] and giving myself a little bit of time against Mono-Red.

To be honest, I did not think this deck was close to the best deck in Standard at that time; I think it was abundantly clear that [[Vivi Ornitier]]-based Izzet decks were objectively the best thing to be doing in the format at the time. That being said, I really enjoyed the lines that you could find with the deck, and I loved the fact that you could play these severely underestimated cards like [[Dreamdew Entrancer]] and [[Hide on the Ceiling]] and put up a strong fight against the meta decks. In addition, I figured that I wouldn't have any real gameplay edge playing the Izzet mirror; I hadn't played a ton of Standard at that point in time, and I'm sure anyone I played would have had more reps in those matchups than me. But by playing this wacky Simic Blink list, I could drag them into the mud on lines that neither of us had much experience playing (maybe even me more than them). This concept of playing decks that you're comfortable piloting as a way to gain equity is one that will resurface later (and I'll share more thoughts on this concept then).

My first match in the ReCQ was against Simic Ouroboroid. It's a decent matchup so long as they don't ramp too aggressively: the version that they were on played Innkeeper's Talent, which was probably good for me as it made their clock a little slower. I ended up winning that match 2-0 on having the [[Hide on the Ceiling]] and [[Spider-Sense]] wrath both times, eating their entire board and leaving them with not a lot to do.

My second opponent in the ReCQ was piloting the villain deck: Izzet Cauldron. Game 1, I'm again able to stabilize and find the [[Hide on the Ceiling]] + [[Tishana's Tidebinder]] wrath, which takes their [[Vivi Ornitier]], [[Fear of Missing Out]], and [[Agatha's Soul Cauldron]] (it also hits artifacts). Once I stick a [[Quantum Riddler]], the game ends swiftly after. For the second game, all of my artifact/enchantment hate comes in: [[Annul]], [[Heritage Reclamation]], [[Vivien Reid]]. I have enough answers for his questions, and eventually stick a [[Vivien Reid]] that he can't deal with, and that engine gets me over the finish line.

Since the ReCQ was small (just 8 people), this gets me into the finals, where my opponent already has an invite and scoops to me for prizing. Invite acquired with this pile of cards!

## I Did Not Want to Play Lessons or Landfall

Fast-forward a few months: I have a great time in Asia not playing a lot of Magic (minus a few weekends of Arena Direct), and TLA and ECL both release while I'm over there. When I arrive back in the US in late January, the Standard meta has mostly settled on two powerful decks as pillars of the format: Izzet Lessons (with [[Artist's Talent]] and [[Monument to Endurance]]) and Simic Cub (with [[Badgermole Cub]] and [[Nature's Rhythm]]). There are also some builds of 4c Elementals and Izzet Spellementals (with [[Sunderflock]] as a clean answer to Cub) floating around from PT ECL as good metagame answers.

I had around a month to figure out what to play for RC Milwaukee (I only had one invite and didn't want to bother flying out to Portland to play a bunch of LCQs on Friday), but the timing crept up on me and I still wasn't sure what I was doing a week out from the event. I'd trialed most of the decks a little on MTGA at this point, but none of them felt particularly good to play. Zevin Faust's Azorius Prison list stood out to me as a list that I thought was interesting (many friends of mine commented that the list felt very "me", whatever that means), and I ended up picking up a bunch of the cards a few days before the RC. After a bit more testing on MTGA though, I realized that there are a lot of small decision points with UW Prison that make it incredibly hard to pilot. There is also very little card flow (besides a couple of [[Enduring Curiosity]]), so you really have to maximize the value of all of your cards. Quite honestly, I felt like this list looked fun to pilot in theory, but in practice would give me lots of opportunities to misplay and punt games away due to my lack of experience with the deck, so I decided against it a couple days before the RC.

At this point, I was really confused and honestly didn't even have too many options in terms of acquiring the cards before the RC. I trawled through decklists on MTGTop8 and MTGGoldfish, doing anything I can to find inspiration on something that I can play. After some vigorous digging, I stumbled across the Boros Dragons won the South American RC in Santiago a week or two ago.

https://www.mtggoldfish.com/deck/7632881#paper

I loaded up this list and played a couple of matches on MTGA. I don't remember how the matches went, but I liked how clean many of the lines felt. T1 Momo into T2 Clarion Conqueror/Nova Hellkite, Sarkhan making a treasure to power out a Magmatic Hellkite on T3; there were many examples where the curveout felt extremely smooth. I had no delusions that this was the best deck in the format, but it did feel extremely powerful on the nut draws and pretty decent post-board as well, with access to a reasonable amount of hate pieces in white as well as lots of card advantage in [[The Legend of Roku]] for grindy games. Quite honestly, I also really liked the fact that the deck encourages you to play spells Main Phase 1 of your turn: [[Momo, Friendly Flier]] and [[Sarkhan, Dragon Ascendant]] both get pumped when your dragons enter, so you're almost always playing out creatures in your first main phase before combat even if they don't have haste. This made sequencing even more straightforward in many spots, which gave me less latitude to punt.
